The 15 Best Running Shoes of 2026
These shoes outkicked the rest for training, racing, trail running and more.

Shopping for a pair of running shoes can be a daunting task. At Runner’s World, we test hundreds of shoes a year, picking the best pairs to include in our annual RW Shoe Awards. In this list, we compile the best shoes, updating it every so often so you can stay in the know about the hottest releases and the trainers we’re still running in well past their testing cycle (that’s how great they are). We’re also including models in our Winter Shoe Guide, which features the latest releases our staff and local testers gave high marks. From road to trail, cushioned to lightweight, neutral to stability, all the shoes listed here are the best that are available right now.

With the help of Runner-in-Chief Jeff Dengate, who has tested running gear for almost two decades, and myself, a 14 times consecutive Boston Marathon finisher, we’ve logged thousands of miles during our tenure at Runner’s World, witnessing the dawn of super shoes and the evolution of stability tech. Below are our top picks based on our own testing, staff insights, and wear-tester feedback.

Best Running Shoes
Best Overall: Adidas Adizero Evo SL (Men’s/Women’s)
Best Value: New Balance Ellipse v1 (Men’s/Women’s)
Best Daily Trainer: Brooks Ghost 18 (Men’s/Women’s)
Best Super Trainer: Brooks Hyperion Max 3 (Men’s/Women’s)
Best for Long Runs: Nike Vomero Plus (Men’s/Women’s)

How We Selected
At Runner’s World, we’ve tested gear since 1966. Our experts are diehard runners like you, putting in the mileage to evaluate products every run, every day. We also have a team of 300+ local wear-testers who log at least 100 miles in every shoe and provide valuable feedback to help us determine the best of the bunch. These runners of various experience levels, gait patterns, ages, and arch types make our testing all-inclusive.

We’ve grouped shoes into three categories—training, racing, trail—to help you pick and choose which pairs fit your running lifestyle. Our staff and local wear testers based these selections on fit, feel, and ride. We’ve also included links to earlier iterations that are now at discounted prices.

Please note: While we’re experts at vetting the best footwear, buying shoes on these sites is at reader’s discretion. We update these links on a regular basis, but prices fluctuate every day and shoes sell out fast. We’ll do our best to check on these links for any changes as the year moves forward.


Full Reviews
Best Training Shoes

Best Overall
Adidas Adizero Evo SL
$180

It’s been over a year since Dengate named the Adidas Adizero Evo SL as the shoe of the year. Because it was merely the beginning of the year, Dengate swore he would eat the trainer if another took its place. Well, the Evo SL is still available, still in our Best Overall spot, and Dengate won’t have to make a meal of rubber and laces.

This prime spot is subject to change now that it’s a new year—and from where I’m sitting, lots of new shoes in our testing close. So stay tuned, and snag the Evo SL before it ends its yearlong Best Overall Shoe reign.


The shoe earned this top spot because of its Lightstrike Pro foam, the same foam Adidas uses in its marathon shoe, the Adios Pro 4, which we also included in this guide. There’s no carbon-fiber plate, which makes the ride less aggressive, but there is a nylon shank in the midfoot for stability. Because of its light weight, you get a bouncy, cushioned ride for daily training, speed workouts, and long runs. It can go the distance as well as not distract on laps at the track.

“I liked that it was lightweight without compromising on cushion,” said wear-tester Eileen Cody, whose average training pace is 7:00. “It was also an incredibly versatile shoe. I liked that it had that daily trainer feel and elements of a racing shoe, but without the hard carbon plate that is found in other super trainers. I felt like my stride was efficient without seemingly letting the shoe do too much work.”

This doesn’t mean the Evo SL is perfect. Some testers found the toebox slightly narrow, and the midfoot a bit wide, and wished the tongue wouldn’t go askew midrun. Despite these drawbacks, our testers loved the Evo SL for its springy ride and versatility.

Best Value
New Balance Ellipse v1
$145

We awarded the Ellipse v1 Best Value for its dialed-in Fresh Foam X cushioning that New Balance retooled to produce a trampoline-like bounce. But this shoe also holds value because it’s specifically designed to make your runs easier. The plush max-cushioning is a triple threat: it provides comfort, support, and high rebound.

The shoe is meant to make runs easier and embody the same feeling you have going on a shakeout with a run group. Testers loved the shoe’s springy ride; even though some thought the Ellipse was too bulky for fast workouts, others felt the shoe would give them an edge running up against friends in other trainers.

“The shoe is SO springy,” said tester Laura Parks. “It’s like running with a strong wind at your back except the extra momentum is coming from the ground. It truly feels like I am at an advantage wearing these shoes and running against someone wearing something else.”

Best Daily Trainer
Brooks Ghost 18
$150

The Brooks Ghost is our No. 1 shoe when we recommend new trainers to beginners. The reason why our editors recommend the Ghost: its Goldilocks cushioning and overall comfort.

The main change with the Ghost 18 is its revamped upper. The jacquard engineered air mesh gives the shoe a street casual look. I’ve worn the shoe on non-running outings and gotten some compliments. The trainer also provides a balanced, smooth ride for daily training. The nitrogen-infused DNA Loft v3 foam absorbs shock and molds to your foot. Senior Reviews Editor Cat Bowen described the cushioning as more memory foam than pillow top; it’s firm but not too firm and over-cushioning doesn’t dampen the bounce of your ride.

The shoe requires some breaking in, however. The new knit upper makes the Ghost 18 feel initially stiff, but that wears off after a couple of runs. The flat-knit tongue and padded heel collar create a secure, comfy fit.

Best Super Trainer
Brooks Hyperion Max 3
$200

The Hyperion Max 3 isn’t legal for racing (World Athletics 40 mm or lower guidelines definitely exclude a trainer as high as 46 mm in the heel), but we understand the temptation to wear it at your local 5K.

The shoe has a DNA Flash v2 and PEBA-based DNA Gold dual midsole that sandwiches a SpeedVault plate. The plate is a nylon/fiberglass blend that’s more pliable than carbon fiber, making the shoe more inclusive. (The stiffness of carbon fiber can hinder runners with a weaker stride.)

Its knit upper is also a draw. Not so long ago, I shunned knit uppers on the likes of Brooks’s now-discontinued Levitate and Bedlam. But knit uppers aren’t anything like they were in the past. The Hyperion Max 3 is cozy and secure, with no heel rubbing or pressure on the instep.

“The Brooks Hyperion Max 3 was by far my favorite RW test shoe,” said tester Jeff Dreschler. “I ran every single road mile in them since the day I got them. From the onset, they just felt ‘right.’ They felt like a super trainer without the minimalism that a lot of super trainers carry over from their super shoe brethren. The rocker, the snappy response, the copious amounts of cushioning, albeit firm. Everything was spot on.”

Best Max-Cushioning
Nike Vomero Plus
$180

It was tough to choose between the Brooks Hyperion Max 3 and Nike Vomero Plus for Best Super Trainer, which is why I settled on including both of them. Both are illegal shoes, both contain that magic foam PEBA in their midsoles (the Vomero Plus has a ZoomX midsole), and both deserve a place on this list.

The Vomero Plus is bestowed the Best Max-Cushioned accolade because it balances comfort and support. The shoe meets you in between: a firm ride that delivers high energy return with supportive cushioning that absorbs shock and cradles your feet.

“The best part about the shoe is easily the foam,” said Editorial Assistant Michael McDonough. “My biggest gripe with the Vomero 18 was that there was almost too much cushion, with the ReactX foam making it slightly heavier while not as maximally comfortable as it could be. But with the full ZoomX midsole, the shoe is both lighter and comfier. And the best part is that these differences didn’t come at the cost of speed—in fact, the shoes feel pretty quick, thanks to the peppiness all 43 mm of the foam provides.”

Best Cushioned
New Balance 1080v15
$170

On a spectrum of lightweight, daily trainer, and max-cushioned, what is considered an ordinary cushioned running shoe? The New Balance 1080v15 fits this “cushioned” category, though it’s anything but ordinary.

The biggest change: no more Fresh Foam X. The brand switched out now yesterday’s foam with Infinion, which is slightly firmer. Because it’s supercritical TPEE and TPU-based foam, the cushioning is longer-lasting than Fresh Foam X, which was industry-standard EVA.

Testers liked how the firmer midsole made the ride have more pop than previous 1080s.

“Each footfall felt soft while still slightly firm,” said Director of Content Operations Brian Dalek. “I never felt like I was bordering on running my miles in super shoes. Instead, I felt like I could take these out several times per week, trying them in long runs and faster tempo outings without wearing them out.”

Best for Run/Walking
Hoka Clifton 10
Now 20% Off
$155
$124

The Clifton 10—or ClifTEN as the Hoka shoe team calls it—is the best Clifton yet. The shoe has a new last (the foot-shaped form that molds the shoe) that makes the fit more accommodating with an extended toebox and additional room over the instep. It’s cushier too; the heel has a 3mm stack increase, making the formerly 5mm offset now 8mm. Hoka told me at The Running Event that the additional height helps keep the Achilles safe. The EVA midsole is also tuned to be more comfortable. This is why the Clifton 10 isn’t only a reliable daily trainer; it’s also a great choice for run/walkers starting out

Think of the Clifton 10 as your plush workhorse for racking up weekly mileage and padding hours of time on the pavement when you’re logging double digits in your training plan. The heel area feels like you’re sitting your foot in a comfy easy chair and the midfoot cushioning lends plenty of support. In other words: heel and midfoot strikers alike will appreciate what the Clifton 10 has to offer, no matter their pace.

“The firm but ample cushioning hits the sweet spot for me,” said Jeff Dengate. “I like to have some cush underfoot, but in an age where everything has gotten bloated and pillowy, it’s nice to have a shoe that is resilient and gives you snappy feedback, but still delivers protection from the sidewalks.”

Most Versatile
Asics Novablast 5
Now 13% Off
$150
$130

Known for its springy ride that expresses quintessential fun run, the Novablast is updated with FF Blast Max foam, making it lighter, softer, and even more comfortable. With 41.5 mm of foam under the heel (40.5 mm women), you’d think a bouncy trainer at such a stack height would scream unstable. But we found its ride isn’t overly soft and squishy. We loved pushing the pace and holding back on easy days.

The only flaw? Our testers point to its outsole. “It does not have the best traction over different surfaces and rounding some turns,” said shoe tester Greg Jaindl. “[I found] it does not do well in the ice, snow, and wet conditions. Although you can manage, you are bound to have a few steps where you slide a bit.”

Best for Stability
Brooks Adrenaline GTS 25
$155

Like the Brooks Ghost, a lot of us started running in the Adrenaline GTS. Even though it’s the stability counterpart to the neutral Ghost, the Adrenaline GTS can serve all types of runners. The guide rails system isn’t too intrusive, and helps overpronators and late-onset overpronating neutral runners alike. Dense foam bumpers the medial and lateral sides, acting as guidance when your form becomes erratic from fatigue.

Now on its 25th model, the Adrenaline GTS is packed with more foam, 1 mm in the heel, 3 mm in the forefoot. Nitrogen-infused DNA Loft v3 delivers high rebound and absorbs shock. The Adrenaline GTS is a comfy choice when you’re looking for a workhorse trainer with firmer cushioning for support. It was a hit with our testers.

“The Brooks Adrenaline GTS 25 has quickly become a standout in my running shoe rotation,” said Kylie Rodriguez, a heel-striker with high arches. “From the moment I first laced them up, the fit was absolutely perfect, feeling snug and supportive without being restrictive. This ‘just right’ feeling is a major plus, as a good fit is the foundation for any comfortable run. What truly impressed me was the shoe’s versatility. Whether I was tackling a quick, high-intensity sprint or settling in for a long-distance effort, the Adrenaline GTS 25 delivered consistent comfort.”

Best for Recovery
Hoka Bondi 9
$175

The Bondi 9 defines a Hoka shoe. It has a cozy interior and a foamy midsole. Because the Bondi 8 came out three years ago, we expected a major update—and Hoka delivered. The Bondi 9 has reached new heights with a 10 mm thicker stack height (the men’s Bondi 8 was 33mm in the heel). The Hoka team tampered down its “billowiness” by giving the shoe a sleeker, more refined look. Because Hoka added higher sidewalls for a more secure fit, Bondi 9 fits tighter on wide feet compared to past models.

Testers liked running long in the shoe and using it as a daily trainer. They wanted a thinner tongue and wider midfoot, but that didn’t make the Bondi 9 lose favor. Some testers were finally won over by the latest iteration, including tester John Mikovits: “Hoka has been hit-or-miss for me but the Bondi, in general, has been a chunky miss. This Bondi 9 has broken the streak of disdain.”

Best Racing Shoes

Best Overall Racer
Adidas Adizero Adios Pro 4
$255

The Adios Pro 4 is the best of both worlds, taking what we liked from past Pro models and combining it from learnings developing the Adizero Adios Pro Evo 1. The shoe has improved Lightstrike Pro foam that’s even comfier and lighter. “I compare it most to the Nike Alphafly, not because of its weight or size but because of the very soft, marshmallowy feel of the cushioning underfoot,” said shoe tester Trevor Conde, who sports a 2:21 marathon PR.

We liked the shoe for racing and race training because of its plush midsole that helped keep our legs fresh during heavy base building. “Every step or push-off you can feel how much that shoes absorbs your foot and then springs it forward,” said tester Mike Browne. “You barely even notice that your heel is hitting the ground as much as it is. The design of the shoes seems to force that rollover quickly, spending less time on your heels.”



Best Lightweight Racer
Asics Metaspeed Edge Tokyo
$270

At 6 ounces, men’s 9, the Metaspeed Edge Tokyo is a remarkably lightweight carbon-fiber-plated racer, but the ride isn’t as volatile or unstable as other super shoes in its category. The Metaspeed Edge Tokyo is the designated cadence runner racing shoe, intended for runners who race with shorter strides. It contrasts with its fraternal twin, the Metaspeed Sky Tokyo, which is meant for stride runners, or those with a longer stride. The difference lies in the orientation of the plate in the forefoot. The positioning of the plate dips lower in the Edge, whereas the Sky’s plate positioning is more equidistant between foams.

I’m favoring the Metaspeed Edge here due to personal experience—it was my shoe of choice for the Sydney Marathon, which had me race faster than originally planned—and because our testers love it too.

“I think that the Metaspeeds are my all-time favorite super shoe,” said tester Anthony Calantoni. “I have worn over 10 different pairs at this point and still find these to be the best feeling all around. They have definitely made improvements from the first edition which feel great.”

One such improvement: a new top layer of bouncier Leap foam. Despite being a tourist and walking 20K+ steps every day leading up to the Sydney Marathon, I felt energized on race day. The Metaspeed Edge Tokyo was a major player in my experience.

Best Trail Shoes

Best Overall Trail
Brooks Cascadia 19
$150

Love the Brooks Ghost? Meet its trail counterpart: the Cascadia 19. A shoe whose history is shared with ultra great Scott Jurek, who collaborated with Brooks on earlier models, the trainer wins Best Overall Trail for its comfortable fit and stable ride over uneven terrain.

The Cascadia 19 is updated with more DNA Loft v3 cushioning in the heel (2 mm added) and in the forefoot (4 mm added). This makes the shoe feel even more protective when things get dicey.

To keep you on your toes, the Trail Adapt System has a flexible rock plate for stability (and as a buffer) and the rubber outsole with 4mm lugs bites into soil so you’ll stay upright.

“I was very impressed with the TrailTack Green outsole of the Brooks Cascadia 19s,” said tester Brooke Schell. “This system allows for a very trustworthy shoe no matter what type of terrain you are running on. The grip gives me full confidence gliding over technical sections of the trail as well as transitioning to a flat dirt or gravel section. No matter the condition of the trail or surface, whether it be wet or dry, the TrailTack grip is top notch.”

Best Hybrid
Lululemon

Wildfeel

The Wildfeel uses a dual-density supercritical foam midsole; the heel is cushier to absorb shock, while the firmer forefoot promotes a responsive toe-off. The outsole has 4 mm lugs, which have an ascending/descending orientation for traction on uneven terrain. The rubber wraps up above the toe to serve as a buffer from rocks and roots.

Testers liked the versatility of the Wildfeel, finding it transitioned smoothly from road to trail.

“I loved the literal and physical flexibility of the Wildfeel!” said tester Jenny Stump. “I am primarily a road runner. These felt comfortable enough that I could do some easy miles on the road as well as tackle some trails with uneven surfaces. All the trail shoes I have previously tried felt more stiff and had such a thick sole that I wouldn’t even want to warmup on the road with them. I like the depth of the tread. It’s enough that I feel secure on slick and uneven surfaces but not too heavy or rigid that my foot isn’t able to flex in the shoe.” Stump suggested the shoes are ideal for long runs and road/trail days.

Best for Ultras
Hoka Mafate X
Now 30% Off
$225
$157

Ultrarunning is a part of Hoka’s origin story. Before the brand went mainstream, ultrarunners laced up in Hokas, appreciating the stacked cushioning that buffered the landings as they ran over hilly, uneven, trail-debris-strewn terrain. The Mafate X celebrated these Hoka-lites and welcomes new ones with pizza- and taco-shaped 3.5 mm lugs and a sparkly, confetti heel counter.

The midsole sandwiches a carbon-fiber plate between a PEBA core and supercritical foam EVA carrier. What you get is the full package: protection, propulsion, plush, and high rebound in 48 mm of height.

“One of my major, major likes is the foam and cushion in this shoe,” said tester Sean O’Connor. “I could run over roots, rocks, whatever and I didn’t feel a thing. If someone told me tomorrow I needed to run 100 miles on rocky terrain I would run in this shoe hands-down without question.”

What to Consider


Weight

In the first couple of years during my tenure at Runner’s World, every shoe brand at our annual Shoe Summit would tout that they have finally developed a lightweight but ultraplush running shoe. Now, in the golden age of super foams, brands have finally successfully executed that promise: trainers that are both lightweight and über-soft. Still, not everyone’s slice of lightweight feels the same.

Weights can also cater to workouts. Perhaps you want a featherlight racing flat for track or a lightweight trainer for speed workouts on the road. A heftier trainer packed with cushioning would serve you well on low-effort days or recovery runs when your body needs that extra padding to absorb shock.

A starting point for gauging the weight of a daily trainer: a men’s 9, according to the training shoes I weighed in the RW lab, is approximately 10 ounces, whereas a women’s size 7 daily trainer averaged around 8 ounces.

The midsole foam in your shoes plays into comfort as well as ride. The typical foams used in running shoes are:

EVA, ethylene-vinyl acetate: EVA was the standard when it came to shoe foam because of its support, cushioning, and flexibility. These days, however, more brands are either injecting EVA with nitrogen and blending it with other materials to make it more lightweight and responsive.
Supercritical: Supercritical foam is when nitrogen or CO2 is pumped into the foam to make it lighter. The foam is filled with microscopic bubbles, enhancing bounce and durability.
PEBA, polyether block amide: Many racing shoes have their carbon-fiber plate sandwiches between two slabs of PEBA. The foam is known for being bouncy, lightweight, and propulsive (the plate isn’t a propulsion component as some believe; instead it’s a stabilizer for the foam). The downside is that it]s not as durable as other shoe foams.

Your shoes should feel comfortable on your feet, free of hotspots, friction, and pinching. There should be room for your toes to splay and your heel shouldn’t slip out of the collar when running.

Some things to look out for:

Length: The best way to determine if the shoe is the right length is to stand with the shoes on, feet shoulder width apart. With a friend’s help, have them measure the toe room. You should have a thumb’s width of wiggle room from the tip of the shoe to the top of your foot.

Width: One way to determine if the width is too narrow or too wide is to use the finger test. You should have two fingers’ width across the lacing. However, the best way to find the perfect fit is to visit your local shoe store and get your feet measured by a pro.

For more info on how to test a prospective pair of shoes, check out our fit guide and video walkthrough.

Daily Trainer: The workhorses of the running world, daily trainers are designed to emphasize comfort and durability so you can run in them every day. Daily trainers usually have well-cushioned midsoles (although they can still feel firm), thicker uppers with padding around the ankle and heel for a comfortable fit, and full-coverage rubber outsoles that offer good grip and high-mileage durability.

Racing Shoes: Speedy shoes made for racing showcase the latest innovations in running shoe technology and design. Right now, that means PEBA foams and carbon fiber plates. Next year? Who knows.

Racing shoes keep their weight low and feature propulsive cushioning to help you set and maintain fast paces. The tradeoff? They’re usually not very durable or stable, and they’re quite expensive. It’s best to save these kicks for race day.

Stability: Everyone’s feet pronate as they run. Some runners need extra support in their shoes due to overpronation—when your foot rolls inward. Excessive overpronation can lead to injury to the knees and lower back, among other areas. Neutral runners may also need shoes with support because of late-onset overpronation (when their form becomes sloppy due to fatigue on long runs). Medial posts are recommended for severe overpronators, while guide rails (dense foam on the medial and lateral sides of the shoe) are best for mild overpronators and neutral runners needing a little extra support.

Trail: Trail shoes are usually heavier because they have features to protect your feet on uneven terrain. These features may include gaiter attachments, heavier rubber with pronounced lugs, and thicker uppers for abrasion resistance.

How to Choose the Best Running Shoes FAQs
Buying based on looks is a big mistake new—and old—runners tend to make. Unlike trainers 15 years ago, shoes today come in a variety of colors. But you should still base your choice on fit, feel, and ride. Make sure you have a thumbnail’s width of toe room and a secure ankle that won’t cause slippage. Test the shoes on the store’s treadmill or outside.

Another popular faux pas: Buying shoes that are too small. Our shoe size changes throughout our life due to many factors. Squeezing into an old shoe size can cause black toenails, blisters, or, at worst, injury.

A general rule of thumb to retire shoes is twice a year if you don’t keep a mileage log for each pair. But runners have different wear patterns; some may be able to get away with running in shoes for years while others go through a pair in a matter of weeks. We recommend 300 to 500 miles for everyday trainers.

For new runners we recommend a shoe like the Brooks Ghost or Nike Pegasus as a starting point. These shoes are moderately cushioned and offer support. From there, you can decide if you prefer more cushioned shoes or lighter shoes or want to stick with these pairs as transition from new runner to road—or trail—warrior. For more beginner shoe selections, read our running shoe guide for beginners.


