Running on a treadmill resembles road running more than trail running because there are no twists, turns, puddles, or obstacles. Ideal for tempo runs! But, the surface is softer than roads.

That’s why nearly all road running shoes (which is ⅔ of the market) can be used for running on a treadmill. We have selected various categories depending on what you may consider a priority. Is it the shoe’s versatility? Cushioning? Support? Ability to go fast? Price? We’ve got the top pick across many categories, all thanks to our field tests and lab tests.

This guide also includes our expert advice on choosing the best treadmill running shoes.

How we test treadmill running shoes
We spend hours scrutinizing every single release on the treadmill and in our independent shoe lab:

As committed testers, we run in each pair to provide extensive feedback.
We then slice the shoes up into pieces and measure over 30 different parameters to translate features and performance into comparable data.
We buy all treadmill running shoes with our own funds to stay unbiased.
Find the best picks in different categories here, along with the in-depth guide on what to pay attention to when buying treadmill running shoes and how to recognize the features you care about!

What makes it the best?
We thoroughly enjoyed our treadmill runs with the New Balance 1080 v15, which continues to be a staple running shoe. It oozes divine levels of comfort and continues to impress with its impact protection, breathability, and consistently dynamic performance. Standing out in the all-rounder game, our lab results agree with our sentiments: the 1080 v15 is our top treadmill running shoe.

The midsole delivers a plush yet responsive ride. We measured an above-average stack height of 37.0/30.6 mm and recorded impressive shock absorption scores of 147 SA in the heel and 126 SA in the forefoot, allowing us to run endlessly.

Pushing the pace was never an issue in our runs because the Infinion foam came alive instantly with our strides. Testing for energy return, we recorded scores that exceeded those of a daily trainer’s, reaching 65.9% in the rear and 69.1% in the forefoot.

The knit upper is soft to the touch, yet allows the smoke we pumped in to steadily escape, earning an impressive 4/5 in our breathability test. No matter how heated our indoor runs get, hotspots and sweaty feet won’t be a problem.

With a heel drop of 6.4 mm, it’s a solid option for midfoot runners. While comfortable for most people, those with extra sensitivities to lower drops because of ankle or Achilles tendon issues should find a more suitable trainer.

Pros
Exceptional plush comfort from top to bottom
Long-awaited foam upgrade
Noticeable weight reduction
Reliable fit with multiple width options
Dependable traction
Feels more capable at faster paces
Flexible and agile build
Premium knit upper with strong airflow
Superior reflective elements

What makes it the best?
Our search for the best shock-absorbing treadmill-running shoe ended when we found the Mizuno Neo Vista 2, which fully embodies maximum impact protection. It envelops our feet with luxurious padding from all angles, as proven by our lab, elevating comfort to new heights as it delivers a natural ride through its lightness and flexibility.

What’s amazing about Neo Vista 2 is how it offers maximum joint protection without our feet feeling the shoe’s bulk. Its sky-high 46.0/37.5 mm stack erases landing impact, and ground feel is almost entirely with its high level of shock absorption. Our lab test records superb scores of 170 SA in the heel and 137 SA in the forefoot. With figures way above average, we had no doubts about its ability to reduce landing force.

Despite its generous foam, it surprisingly weighs only 9.3 oz (264g), at par with average. The midsole has a lot of give for foot-bending, which enhances its lightness. In our flex test, it emerged 12.3% more malleable than average.

The padded knit upper has a premium touch. Despite its plushness, we had no encounters with overheating in our indoor runs, courtesy of the well-ventilated upper. And breathable it is, as our smoke test reveals a solid 4/5 rating.

Note that its super soft foam may feel unstable, particularly for heel strikers. Runners who need extra reinforcements should go for a more supportive trainer.

Pros
Massive stack height
Super-plush Enerzy NXT foam
Perfect for long runs
Lightweight for its huge size
Good durability
Breathable knit upper
Roomy toebox height
Insanely fun!

Best lightweight running shoes for treadmill
Saucony Kinvara 16

What makes it the best?
The Saucony Kinvara 16 brought our treadmill experience to life with its refreshing ride and featherweight feel. This versatile trainer responds to interval training, provides comfort for LSDs, and offers flexibility for easygoing days. It's an agile training companion, packed with features that elevate our indoor runs, such as breathability, earning the best lightweight treadmill running shoe title, as confirmed by our lab tests.

Weighing a mere 7.3 oz (207g), it’s 21.6% lighter than the average road running shoe. Its loose and fluid build adds to its weightlessness as it follows our natural foot contortions with ease. Our bend test confirms that Kinvara 16 is 22.1% more flexible than average, bringing unparalleled agility to our strides.

Its moderate stack height of 28.0/23.5 mm feels like a breath of fresh air in this current era of maximalism, offering a natural yet steady and speedy ride.

Wrapping up the breezy experience is its uninterrupted airflow, making heated indoor sessions more bearable. As we pumped smoke into the shoe, it escaped seamlessly, earning the maximum 5/5 breathability score.

However, the midsole may feel dull to performance-seeking runners. Those who require more energy return should look for more responsive trainers.

Pros
Still low-drop, low-stack!
Lightweight and flexible
High-quality upper
Loves to go fast
Breathable for hot summer days
Dependable traction
Gusseted tongue
Good for developing foot strength

Treadmill running shoes with the best energy return

What makes it the best?
The Saucony Endorphin Elite 2 brought our indoor runs to life with its boundless energy, divine cushioning, and breathable build. It feels explosive underneath, backed up by record-breaking lab results, and is our treadmill running shoe with the best energy return.

The IncrediRUN foam sets a new standard for responsiveness and feels so incredible underfoot. Measuring for energy return, we recorded 80.6% in the heel and 82.1% in the forefoot, the highest we’ve encountered so far, and our feet can’t deny it!

Another feature we enjoyed is its impressive impact protection. With a maximum height of 39.9/32.4 mm, and top-level shock absorption of 157 SA in the heel and 123 SA in the forefoot, we feel like we could keep running forever with its uber-plush platform.

And when the adrenaline sets in and the heat goes up, the upper keeps us cool and refreshed. In our lab test, the smoke we pumped in flowed out easily, proving it deserves the maximum 5/5 breathability score.

However, the soft and stacked cushioning demands proper form. Those who need extra support should try stability shoes.

Pros
Record-breaking energy return
Ultra-plush foam
Fantastic shock absorption
Addictively bouncy and fun feel
Ideal for the marathon distance
Durable and breathable upper
Improved lockdown with knit tongue
Stack height maxes out the legal limit
Explosive, forward-driving ride

Best stability running shoes for treadmill

What makes it the best?
We never felt this level of security and comfort until we wore the ASICS Gel Kayano 32. Our lab findings show that its substantial FF Blast+ ECO foam delivers luxurious cushioning, while the 4D Guidance System and expansive platform offer unwavering support. With these, it ranks as our top stability shoe for treadmill runs.

Its 4D Guidance System cleverly gives custom-made support—adjusting to our foot shape with further use and delivering top-tier protection and comfort. Further securing our landings is the wider-than-average midsole, with an extra allowance of 5.5/6.5 mm in the forefoot and heel to help us find our footing.

Since the stability features are so effective, GK32 has the advantage of offering plush cushioning. Our caliper reveals a whopping 39.9/30.6 mm stack, with far above-average shock absorption scores of 133/116 SA in the heel and forefoot, respectively. This supportive shoe spoiled us with ASICS’ leg-saving foam and adds the PureGEL in the heel for even gentler landings.

Unfortunately, GK32 stays true to the stability shoe’s branding in terms of weight. At a heavy 10.4 oz (295g), it burdened us during faster efforts and performed best during easy runs.

Pros
Amazing shock absorption
Plush and breathable upper
Made to last
Dependable for most pronators
Heavy-duty outsole with excellent grip
Stable as a table
Pillow-soft heel padding
Improved fit
Excellent build quality

Best tempo shoes for running on a treadmill

What makes it the best?
We thoroughly enjoyed our training runs with the Adidas Adizero EVO SL. It oozes pure comfort, delivering a powerful yet subtle stream of energy that helps us run faster and farther. Standing out in the all-rounder game, our lab results agree with what our feet enjoyed—this Adidas shoe is our best tempo trainer for treadmill running.

The main source of power lies in the Lightstrike Pro midsole. Testing for energy return, it returned impressive scores of 74.3% in the heel and 70.3% in the forefoot, validating the propulsive toe-offs we felt.

Our cut-in-half shoe reveals its lack of a carbon plate, making it comfortable for easy runs to race pace. True enough, our bend test reveals it’s 36% more flexible than average, keeping the ride smooth and all natural.

Another element that keeps us chasing the miles is its light 7.9 oz (223g) build, 15.8% below average. Topping it off is an incredibly breathable upper that ensures free-flowing winds beneath our toes. Our smoke test confirms we won’t overheat indoors with its 5/5 rating.

Unfortunately, its narrow midsole makes it less suitable for those needing extra support. Those who need more guidance should go for a stability shoe.

Pros
100% Lightstrike Pro superfoam
Exceptional value-to-performance ratio
Low weight
Ultra-breathable upper
Unmatched versatility
Agile and fun ride
Handles short and long runs with ease
Striking Evo 1-inspired aesthetics

Cons
Poor-quality laces
Short, non-gusseted tongue
Toebox durability

Best low drop running shoes for treadmill

What makes it the best?
With its stripped-down construction yet electric ride, the Nike Streakfly 2 is our best low-drop treadmill trainer. Our lab results show what we experienced: it’s a no-fuss shoe that feels like a track spike with its exceptional lightness and flexibility. Its low platform kept us agile and ground-connected in our runs. 

The ride has a strong surface feel with its minimal 27.0/23.3 mm cushion. With our caliper, we measured a heel-to-toe drop of 3.7 mm, 57.0% less inclined than average. This result fosters a natural running sensation akin to barefoot strides, notably with its featherweight 4.5 oz (128g) design, shedding 51.1% off the average running shoe's weight.

The midsole boasts a ZoomX foam that allows us to breeze through treadmill training. We found it easy to pick up the pace during speed sessions, with high energy return scores of 76.3% in the heel and 77.9% in the forefoot. 

We also felt like we were the main driver of our runs as the shoe freely adapted to our movements despite the presence of the Flyplate. Our bend test confirms its out-of-this-world flexibility to be 54% above average.

To maintain comfort during indoor runs, Streakfly 2 has excellent ventilation, and our breathability tests agree with a flawless 5/5 rating.

Regrettably, its minimal cushioning limits comfort to shorter runs. For distances of 21k and beyond, we recommend a more supportive shoe.

Pros
Feather-light build
Ideal for 5K/10K races
Wild, fun and fast
Now features a carbon-fiber plate
Much quicker than its predecessor
Top-tier ZoomX foam
Perfect for track workouts
Not pricey all things considered
Can stretch up to half marathon
Grips well on dry and wet roads
Cons
Not for heel strikers
Only for short distances
Narrow toebox
Lacks stability

Comparison of the 7 best treadmill running shoes

5 things to look for in treadmill running shoes
Many runners think that you can run on the treadmill in just about any running shoe. Maybe not ANY running shoe, but sure, most of the road shoes are good for the treadmill. 

Here are a few things to pay attention to that can make your treadmill runs better:

Breathability. Best to find a breathable shoe because treadmills are always inside and it can get very hot in a gym. After all, it’s not as easy for us to get the treadmill to the top of the mountain as it is for some. In our reviews, you can look for shoes that scored 4/5 or 5/5 on the breathability test.
Shock absorption and stability if needed. This is very important because running on the treadmills means no change in terrain, no turns, it’s just very repetitive motion over and over again. To avoid unwanted strain on your legs, get enough cushioning for impact protection and stability if you’re overpronating or enjoying stability elements on the longer runs. 
Regular grip because the treadmill is flat, there are no sharp turns, or obstacles, and there’s no rain, snow, mud. Very grippy outsoles can be overkill on a treadmill and make the runs weird. 
Treadmills are softer than pavement so you might look for lighter running shoes that would make your runs easier/better. 
Energy return, especially if you're logging miles at faster paces, or simply long mileage on the treadmill.
The rest depends on what you plan to do on the treadmill. Many will go for tempo or race shoes when doing tempo runs, and many runners would go for a softer, recovery daily trainer, if they are resting from the hard sessions. 

Breathability of treadmill running shoes
As mentioned above, best to look for very breathable running shoes. In our lab, we test breathability by pumping the smoke into the shoe and looking at where the smoke comes out and how fast. Based on that, we give the breathability rating on a 1-5 scale where 5 is the most breathable. 

Clearly noticeable differences in less breathable and very breathable uppers

We also examine the upper of running shoes under the microscope to better understand the smoke test results. Breathable running shoes often have 1-layer uppers that are thin and have ventilation holes. 

Non-breathable running shoes have tightly woven uppers that often have overlays as well. We’re able to see these overlays when we put the upper against the flashlight. 
Cushioned, protective, stable, what else? 
If you log long runs on the treadmill, you might enjoy running shoes with enough cushioning or, with cushioning that offers great shock absorption. Shock absorption tells us how good the midsole is at dampening the impact at the landing. 

The better the midsole at dampening the impact forces, the less you or your legs have to deal with that stress, so naturally, we want this as high as possible.
If you're a forefoot striker, you may want to check the data for the forefoot: 
Treadmill running shoes with the best shock absorption at the forefoot
Name	Shock absorption forefoot	Forefoot stack	Pace	Audience score
Mizuno Wave Sky 9	145 SA	38.1 mm	Daily running	87 Great!
ASICS Megablast	144 SA	35.2 mm	Tempo, Competition	88 Great!
Hoka Skyward X	139 SA	37.1 mm	Daily running, Tempo	88 Great!
Mizuno Neo Vista 2	137 SA	37.5 mm	Tempo, Daily running	91 Superb!
PUMA MagMax Nitro 2	137 SA	35.0 mm	Daily running	88 Great!
HOKA Cielo X1 3.0	137 SA	31.1 mm	Competition	89 Great!
Nike Pegasus Premium	136 SA	31.0 mm	Daily running, Tempo	82 Good!
Brooks Hyperion Max 3	133 SA	35.0 mm	Daily running, Tempo	85 Good!
ASICS Sonicblast	133 SA	36.4 mm	Tempo, Daily running	86 Great!
ASICS Metaspeed Edge Tokyo	132 SA	32.0 mm	Competition	89 Great!

Another important thing to consider is stability. If you’re an overpronator and need a stability shoe, definitely look for one when it comes to running on a treadmill. 

Different stability elements present in shoes for overpronators
Even neutral runners, especially the heel-striking ones, enjoy some stability when the miles start piling up because there’s no diversity there, just the same motion on the same surface at the usually same inclination. Very stable landing in high-stacked Brooks Ghost Max

High-stacked Nike Alphafly 3 not stable at the heel 

Best-rated stability treadmill running shoes
Name	Arch support	Audience score
Nike Structure Plus	Stability	90 Superb!
ASICS Gel Kayano 32	Stability	84 Good!
Brooks Glycerin GTS 22	Stability	79 Good!
Hylo Axis	Stability	89 Great!
Brooks Addiction GTS 15	Stability	82 Good!
Hoka Rincon 4	Stability	80 Good!

When it comes to neutral running shoes, a wide base helps with stability a lot. Because of this, we measure the width of the base at the forefoot and at the heel. 

Based on this, you can choose shoes with wider midsoles if you want a more stable ride. 

Neutral treadmill running shoes with the widest base
Name	Midsole width - heel	Midsole width - forefoot	Audience score
Nike Winflo 12	104.4 mm	122.2 mm	85 Good!
Under Armour Infinite Elite 2	103.9 mm	119.0 mm	88 Great!
Reebok FloatZig 1	103.6 mm	117.0 mm	89 Great!
KURU Triple Max Ion	102.6 mm	121.4 mm	86 Great!
Nike Invincible 3	102.1 mm	121.8 mm	81 Good!
On Cloudboom Max	101.5 mm	117.2 mm	85 Good!

Energy return of treadmill running shoes
Now that we've found a shoe with great shock absorption, we should look at energy return as well. If we don't take it into account, we may end up with a shoe that absorbs the impact perfectly but then stays compressed, squished, and it does not bounce back up quickly or nearly to the original height. And this means your legs will have to work more to compensate! 

Energy return of top-rated treadmill running shoes
Name	Energy return forefoot	Pace	Audience score
Adidas Adizero EVO SL	73.5%	Daily running, Tempo	93 Superb!
On Cloudboom Strike	73.4%	Competition	93 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Sky Tokyo	78.2%	Competition	92 Superb!
Adidas Adizero SL2	64.3%	Daily running, Tempo	91 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Ray	81.0%	Competition	91 Superb!
Adidas Adizero Prime X3 STRUNG	76.7%	Tempo, Competition	91 Superb!
Mizuno Neo Vista 2	59.8%	Tempo, Daily running	91 Superb!
Brooks Hyperion Elite 5	77.7%	Competition	90 Superb!
PUMA Deviate Nitro Elite 4	77.2%	Competition	90 Superb!
Nike Vaporfly 4	74.5%	Competition	90 Superb!
Why risk it? Energy return is great, and we all love running in responsive running shoes. The effect of high energy return in running shoes is also called a leg-saving feature because the responsiveness prevents premature foot fatigue. 

Treadmill running shoes with the best energy return
Name	Energy return forefoot	Pace	Audience score
PUMA Fast-R Nitro Elite 3	82.6%	Competition	86 Great!
Saucony Endorphin Elite 2	82.1%	Competition	85 Good!
ASICS Metaspeed Ray	81.0%	Competition	91 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Sky Tokyo	78.2%	Competition	92 Superb!
Saucony Endorphin Speed 5	78.2%	Tempo	85 Good!
HOKA Rocket X 3	78.0%	Competition	84 Good!
Nike Streakfly 2	77.9%	Competition, Tempo	83 Good!
Brooks Hyperion Elite 5	77.7%	Competition	90 Superb!
PUMA Deviate Nitro Elite 4	77.2%	Competition	90 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Edge Tokyo	76.8%	Competition	89 Great!
Traction of treadmill running shoes 
When it comes to running on the treadmill, given that it is softer than concrete, we can advise: 

No lugs! So, don’t go for hybrid shoes (road-to-trail shoes) and definitely don’t go for trail shoes
The rubber that is not too grippy; if it bites into the treadmill like claws, it can feel ob
What you should pay attention to when it comes to the rubber is where it is placed on the outsole. This indicates which foot strike the shoe is made for. 

Running shoes that favor forefoot strike have rubber coverage focused on the forefoot
When heel strikers run in these shoes, they tend to wear them out sooner because there’s no rubber at the heel and the exposed foam is MUCH LESS durable. 
Performing a durability test on the exposed midsole (no rubber at the heel) results in a very big damage (right) vs when performed on the rubber (left)

In the lab, we actually test the traction of all running shoes. We do so by pressing the shoe using a force of 500N against the wet surface and we use a 7-degree wedge to test the traction at the forefoot. The result is a dynamic coefficient of friction or dynamic CoF and, the higher it is, the better the traction on wet surfaces. 
Traction of top-rated running shoes for treadmill
Name	Forefoot traction	Pace	Audience score
Adidas Adizero EVO SL	0.40	Daily running, Tempo	93 Superb!
On Cloudboom Strike	0.62	Competition	93 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Sky Tokyo	0.66	Competition	92 Superb!
Adidas Adizero SL2	0.69	Daily running, Tempo	91 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Ray	0.70	Competition	91 Superb!
Adidas Adizero Prime X3 STRUNG	0.56	Tempo, Competition	91 Superb!
Mizuno Neo Vista 2	0.45	Tempo, Daily running	91 Superb!
Brooks Hyperion Elite 5	0.59	Competition	90 Superb!
PUMA Deviate Nitro Elite 4	0.69	Competition	90 Superb!
Nike Vaporfly 4	0.45	Competition	90 Superb!
Weight: lab data for treadmill running shoes
We measure the weight of every shoe that comes into our lab. 
Measuring the weight of the shoe in RunRepeat lab
When it comes to treadmill running shoes, we think lighter is better as long as you get the prioritized features (breathability, cushioning, stability). But, many shoes are great for treadmills and their weight varies. Have a look at the table below. 
Weight of best-rated treadmill running shoes
Name	Weight	Audience score
Adidas Adizero EVO SL	7.9 oz (223g)	93 Superb!
On Cloudboom Strike	7.1 oz (201g)	93 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Sky Tokyo	5.7 oz (163g)	92 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Sky	6.7 oz (191g)	91 Superb!
Adidas Adizero SL2	8.6 oz (245g)	91 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Ray	4.6 oz (129g)	91 Superb!
Why heel drop matters for treadmill runs 
Actually, heel to toe drop matters for ALL runs. 
Sudden changes in heel drop are never advised and one should transition to a new drop gradually. Otherwise, anything can happen, from feeling muscle pain due to sudden overuse to injury. 

If you’re new to this topic, we recommend this reading material: Heel to toe drop: The ultimate guide. 

This happens because different heel drops utilize different muscle groups. Zero drop is the drop that activates your foot muscles the most. Lower drops (lower than 6mm) activate muscles below the knees - calves and Achilles. And high drop will go for the thighs and hip muscles. A sudden change in heel drop is considered anything from 4 mm and above. 
Where heel stack height will be measured: according to WorldAthletics guidelines
Beginners are usually advised to go for a ~10mm drop. If you already have a pair of running shoes and are considering a new pair, make sure the drop is in the ok range or plan the adaptation period carefully. 

It’s VERY important to know that brands often publish heel drop numbers that are WRONG. In the lab, we measure stack heights according to the guidelines from WorldAthletics so our measurements are accurate. 

Heel drop of best-rated treadmill running shoes
Name	Drop	Audience score
Adidas Adizero EVO SL	8.0 mm	93 Superb!
On Cloudboom Strike	3.2 mm	93 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Sky Tokyo	6.0 mm	92 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Sky	2.5 mm	91 Superb!
Adidas Adizero SL2	8.2 mm	91 Superb!
ASICS Metaspeed Ray	9.8 mm	91 Superb!
When your toes need more room
Many runners don’t use the treadmill just for the warmup but to actually log miles, especially LSDs. Long runs mean a lot of sweat and swelling, and if your toes need more room to splay because they don’t want to feel cramped and don’t like the idea of blisters and bloody nails, look for shoes with a wider toebox. 

For this purpose, we measure the width of the shoe in 2 places: where it’s widest and at the big toe. This allows us to understand how wide and how pointy the toeboxes are. For this purpose, we measure the width of the shoe in 2 places: where it’s widest and at the big toe. This allows us to understand how wide and how pointy the toeboxes are. 
Making a gel mold of the shoe's interiors which allows us to measure the width and height
Measuring the width of the shoe where it's the widest, the toebox height, and the width of the toebox at the big toe 
We do this because not all feet are the same and there are different shapes of the toes out there.
Some need more room closer to the tip of the shoe (at the big toe), others need more room around the ball of the foot (where the shoe is the widest). 

Treadmill running shoes with the widest toeboxes
Name	Toebox width	Width / Fit	Toebox height
Altra Escalante Racer 2	83.3 mm	102.4 mm	34.1 mm
Altra Vanish Carbon 2	80.9 mm	94.4 mm	29.8 mm
Altra Experience Form	80.9 mm	97.3 mm	27.1 mm
Topo Specter 2	80.2 mm	97.6 mm	31.8 mm
Topo ST-5	79.0 mm	97.1 mm	30.2 mm
Adidas Ultraboost 5	78.6 mm	98.4 mm	27.9 mm
ASICS Noosa Tri 16	77.3 mm	98.6 mm	31.2 mm
On Cloudboom Max	76.9 mm	94.6 mm	28.1 mm

Widest treadmill running shoes
Name	Width / Fit	Toebox width	Toebox height
Altra Escalante Racer 2	102.4 mm	83.3 mm	34.1 mm
ASICS Noosa Tri 16	98.6 mm	77.3 mm	31.2 mm
Adidas Ultraboost 5	98.4 mm	78.6 mm	27.9 mm
Adidas Adizero SL2	98.3 mm	71.7 mm	26.2 mm
Mount to Coast C1	98.2 mm	73.2 mm	28.2 mm
On Cloudstratus 3	98.1 mm	73.8 mm	27.1 mm
Nike Winflo 12	98.0 mm	72.6 mm	24.4 mm
Adidas Adizero Prime X3 STRUNG	97.8 mm	73.2 mm	25.4 mm
And, if you often experience too much pressure on the toes and toenails, or maybe even black toenails, we recommend looking for high toeboxes. 

Treadmill running shoes with the highest toeboxes
Name	Toebox height	Width / Fit	Toebox width
Altra Escalante Racer 2	34.1 mm	102.4 mm	83.3 mm
Nike Alphafly 3	33.7 mm	93.3 mm	75.3 mm
On Cloudswift 4	33.5 mm	93.8 mm	68.9 mm
Topo Specter 2	31.8 mm	97.6 mm	80.2 mm
ASICS Noosa Tri 16	31.2 mm	98.6 mm	77.3 mm
ASICS Metaspeed Sky Tokyo	30.6 mm	90.5 mm	70.1 mm
Topo ST-5	30.2 mm	97.1 mm	79.0 mm
Altra Vanish Carbon 2	29.8 mm	94.4 mm	80.9 mm
And if the shoes feel narrow overall, it’s best to look for a wide option.

 	Narrow	Medium	Wide	Extra wide
Men	B	D	2E	4E
Women	B	2A	D	2E
Labels for different widths of shoes

You can find these labels on the shoes and shoe boxes. If shopping online, the width is usually very clearly shown.