The 7 Best Affordable Running Shoes That Help You Save Big Without Sacrificing Comfort
Don’t mistake them as only for “beginners.” Trickle-down design means these cheap trainers are more capable than ever for tough workouts.

“All you need is a pair of shoes to start running” isn’t exactly truthful. If you hate your toenails and heels, by all means, wear Converse high-tops. A good pair of running shoes will spare your digits and the skin on your feet—but that doesn’t mean you have to drop cash on expensive trainers.

Cheap running shoes, models less than $130, are a respectable choice for beginners and vets wanting to save. From plush to moderately cushioned, we’ve listed affordable running shoes on this list that’ll help you save up for more run gear, like a fancy GPS watch or that next destination race.

How We Selected
To find the best shoes under $130, we performed comprehensive research on top-rated trainers by well-known brands, and called in shoes for our shoe program testers and staff to evaluate. These shoes were vetted by scrutinizing fit, ride, and comfort.

We also spoke with Footwear Buyer Jon Notary, who works at the local running store Aardvark Sports Shop in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. Notary provides insight on what you’re compromising on when buying cheap shoes, and gives advice on what to look for when you’re out shopping for your next pair.

All the trainers on this list are Best Value material, but the 680v9 deserves the title for its consistency with each update. Though not as plush or responsive as say, the more expensive 1080 or 880, the 680 still encapsulates New Balance’s soft cushioned feel, absorbing shock and promoting comfort on every run.

Its Fresh Foam midsole provides a supportive, plush, lightweight ride, making the 680v9 an excellent choice as an everyday trainer that can handle base-building mileage. A breathable, cozy upper makes this a comfy running shoe and great for casual wear, as well.

You can’t go wrong with the Launch 12 for a speed shoe, especially when it has DNA Flash v2, the foam featured in the Hyperion Elite 4. The nitrogen-infused supercritical foam is lightweight and responsive; it provides plenty of pop for fast workouts on the road and track.

One drawback, at least for runners with wide feet, is the midfoot area is quite narrow.

“No matter how many times I loosened and re-laced my shoes, it always felt too tight through the midfoot area, causing some noticeable discomfort,” said RW editor Ashley Tysiac. “While I can appreciate its secure fit, I think this system could have been reimagined to be bit more forgiving in that area to provide more comfort.”

Despite her distaste for the Launch 12’s tightness, she praised the shoe’s lightweight and responsiveness. Tysiac found the shoe’s simplicity refreshing in our max-cushioned era of trainers.

“I think the weight of the shoe is the best part, as it’s very light yet provides a pretty stable ride,” she said. “That made it the perfect shoe for runs where I wanted to pick up the pace a bit without being dragged down by heavy shoes, and even a good option for those recovery days when I still wanted to feel light on my feet while running at a slower pace.”

The Revel series received a couple of updates, making this budget shoe feel even more premium-built. The midsole is DNA Loft v2 cushioning, which is much softer than the previous Revel’s foam. The upper is also more breathable, and looks classy for both workouts and casual wear.


AD
The shoe has that comfy Brooks-feel that is on par with its more expensive trainers. It’s lightweight for speedwork, while also soft enough for base-building miles. In an age when marathons are costing upwards of $300 (hey, NYC!), it’s nice knowing you can save big on the shoe that’ll get you through training.

The FloatZig 2 looks bulky with its unconventional, zigzag midsole rim around the shoe. But we found it surprisingly lightweight during testing. Its soft cushioning—that midsole isn’t just for looks—provided a supportive bed for testers’ feet for long runs.

“What I found most enjoyable about this shoe was how lightweight and balanced it is,” said tester Mike Parmer. “The fit and comfort allowed longer training runs and no sore feet or toes. This shoe is one of the better shoes I have tested recently and would compare equally to Hoka.”

The Superfloat+ midsole promotes high energy return, giving a much-needed boost when the road feels long.

Anta proves you can have premium cushioning on a budget. The PG7 has an incredibly plush feel, making the shoe versatile for easy runs, long runs, and casual wear. Running Reviews Editor Amanda Furrer has been logging mileage in the PG7 during icy, below-freezing jaunts in the northeast. The cushioning stays soft and also supportive, allowing her to run hard and fast. The traction on snow isn’t bad either.

“I’m surprised how responsive this shoe is compared to other trainers like the Brooks Glycerin and Saucony Triumph,” she said.

If you haven’t heard of Anta, put this brand on your radar now.

Though the C202 7 costs the most on this list, it’s more than worth the $130 price. Compared to racing shoes that are upwards of $200, the C202 7 has a full-length carbon-fiber plate sandwiched in its midsole of DAN cushioning, a TPU supercritical foam.

The shoe feels snappy and responsive. And it has good traction too. Furrer tested the shoe during a rainy 5K in San Antonio, Texas. While other competitors wiped out on slick turns, Furrer stayed vertical cutting corners and exhilarating on waterlogged sidewalks and muddy dividers.

Trail running demands a lot from your shoes. Between the hard-charging descents and scraping against rough rocks, the last thing you want is a cheap, flimsy shoe that won’t hold up. The Saucony Excursion TR17 has a Versarun, which absorbs impact and provides comfy cushioning over trail debris.

One knock is the shoe is quite heavy, and it runs a little small and narrow, so consider sizing up and trying on the wide version. For extra protection, you can buy the GTX iteration of the shoe which has a Gore-Tex shield upper ($110).

All models of the Excursion TR17 have 4.5mm lugs to keep you on your toes when things get dicey.