Rating the Most Expensive Race Shoes from Every Brand
Every major running shoe brand now has at least one marathon race shoe. They range in price from the Mizuno Wave Rebellion Pro 3 at $250 to the Puma Fast-R 3 and ASICS Metaspeed Ray at $300, all the way up to the Adidas Adizero Adios Pro Evo 2 at $500. Below we are looking at each brand’s top-tier racer and letting you know if it is worth the price.

Adidas Adizero Adios Pro Evo 2 at $500
The Pro Evo 2 is a lightweight, fast and highly capable marathon racer, but for $500 we'd expect something that feels more special. ASICS and Puma have dropped far more exciting shoes for $200 less. If you want a similar feel with a much more durable foam and outsole, check out the Adios Pro 4 from Adidas that retails at a very competitive $250 and can often be found at a massive discount in certain colorways.

On Cloudboom Strike LS for $330
The Cloudboom Strike LS has a great midsole, but the fancy upper adds a $50 premium over the non-lightspray version. We've really enjoyed the standard Cloudboom Strike and think it is a much better deal at $280.

ASICS Metaspeed Ray for $300
While $300 is a lot of money to pay for a running shoe, you are paying for the forefront of innovation in the Metaspeed Ray. ASICS is on the cutting edge of lightweight race shoe technology with this one. You get a full slab of their ATPU foam in a package that is lighter than any other race shoe on the market. Only time will tell how durable it is, but the Ray is definitely a unique experience with the newest foam compound on the market. If you'd like to try something a little less aggressive but still using some of the new ATPU foam, try the Metaspeed Sky Tokyo or the Metaspeed Edge Tokyo for $270.

Puma Fast-R 3 at $300
The Fast-R 3 is both lab tested and hobby jogger tested to be the fastest and most aggressive marathon race shoe on the market. The speed assistance, traction, and innovation make this one definitely worth the $300 asking price.

Diadora Gara Carbon 2 at $300
The Gara Carbon 2 is a soft and comfortable race shoe pick, but it doesn't stack up to the other shoes on this list in terms of speed assistance, fun experience, or innovation, especially at $300. It is a better long run training shoe than a true race shoe.

Nike Alphafly 3 at $295
The Alphafly 3 recently underwent a $10 price increase and it might not be the best time to buy at MSRP given the upcoming release of the Alphafly 4, but the legendray Alphafly 3 is still worth it and Nike is still dropping new colorways in this one. It is a tried and true, fast and comfortable race shoe that seems to work for a wide variety of runners.

Saucony Endorphin Elite 2 at $290
While the Endorphin Elite 2 is not the fastest or most stable pick, its wildly soft, bouncy midsole provides a truly unique experience. We appreciate that Saucony isn't afraid to push the boundaries of what race shoe foams can be.

Tracksmith Eliot Racer at $280
The Eliot Racer delivers a comfortable, cushioned underfoot feel, but it rides more like an elevated training shoe than a $280 racer. It is only worth the price if you want that New England, pretty aesthetic that you get from Tracksmith.

Hoke Cielo X1 2.0 at $275
The Cielo X1 2.0 has a great rocker profile that works well for midfoot to forefoot strikers, but delivers a subpar foam by 2025 standards. It lacks the bite and pop of the top-tier midsoles.

Brooks Hyperion Elite 5 at $275
The Hyperion Elite 5 is a race shoe blending comfort and speed that anyone can lace up and have a good race in. The $275 price point feels slightly steep since it is not the most fun or innovative shoe on the market, but it's still worth it for its accessible, reliable ride.

New Balance SC Elite v5 at $265
New Balance initially released the SC Elite v5 at $250 and then bumped it up $15 to $265. While there are faster shoes out there, none provides the same amount of comfort in a speedy race day package. We have loved running in this shoe and enjoyed it for long runs with pace pickups. It is worth it for the runner who wants a racer with a forgiving and comfortable feel.

Mizuno Wave Rebellion Pro 3 at $250
Mizuno is holding it down with reasonable race shoe pricing in 2025. With 60mm of bouncy race foam in the midfoot, the Wave Rebellion Pro 3 delivers the most stack for your buck on the market. If you want the same foam in a more stable package, try out the Wave Rebellion Pro 3 Lo.

Supwell Shoe Matcher
Whether you're looking for a reliable easy run shoe, pampering comfort on recovery days, a long-run cruiser, or a race day weapon, check out our Shoe Matcher tool to get matched. We've done the extensive testing, so you don't have to.

