
Go to AdvancedRunning
r/AdvancedRunning
•
1y ago
EZ_Company

For budget-conscious runners, what are the most economical shoe per mile?
Gear
For budget-conscious runners, what shoes (brands / products) do ya'll recommend? Even running 30 - 40 mpw means I'm swapping shoes every couple months, which adds up quickly.

I do realize everyone's experience is slightly different (weight, stride, pronation, gravel vs concrete, rainy vs snow vs hot weather, etc.) but curious on others' experiences.

I'm a stability shoe user and have found:

Brooks seems to be the longest lasting with a few pairs going well until 1,000+ mi. The shoe holds up amazingly well (no tears or rips anywhere) but the foam deteriorates to where pain / injury starts

Hokas have lasted up to ~650 mi but they have the longest break-in period. The plastic heel counters break through the cloth and padding and is rough on the ankle. Their sole padding has a sharp inner edge, which takes ~50 mi to 'break-in' blisters as a pronating flat-footed runner.

Oasics start feeling flat after ~400 miles - especially in the ball / tip area but overall solid shoes

Saucony's have been the absolute worst for me - the insole and outsole areas seem to blow up (rips in the shoe) after around 200 miles (probably due to my pronation.

Conversely, I was thinking of looking at cheaper shoes that may last shorter but are more economical per mile? I remember shoes lasting a lot longer 10+ years ago.


Maybe the Nike Pegasus line? Pretty much the cheapest decent running shoes Nike sells. I really enjoyed my Pegasus 40s until 500-550 miles when they started to lose their pop.

I track sales and buy flagship models when they are in the $60-90 range. Really hard to get more economical ($/mile) than that, regardless of shoe construction variability between brands (maybe in your extreme Saucony case they are not worth it, but I wouldn't trust that unless it happened on multiple pairs).

I've tried non-flagship models in the $40-50 range and have been burned each time with garbage shoes.

Asics Novablast

New Balance 1080 v13 are currently $80 on Joe’s online outlet. You can get 500 miles out of this shoe and it’s relatively versatile, although I wouldn’t want to do a track workout in them.

850km into a pair of Pegasus 40 and they look/feel like they’ve easily got another 850km in them. You’re not going to beat Ingebrightsen in them but they do a solid job across all disciplines

A lot of runners stick to the big names, but honestly, some cross-trainers and walking shoes can surprisingly hold their own, especially if your focus is on stability and durability over pure speed. This gravity defyer one is a good option, has solid heel and arch support, and the cushioning’s more shock-absorbing than bouncy. Kinda built for people who are on their feet all day, so they’re good for the joints. some people also swear by cheaper shoes like decathlon’s kalenji line or reebok’s older running models they might not last 1,000 miles, but if you’re getting 300–400 out of a $50–$70 pair, that’s still decent value per mile.

you have to consider "per shoe model" longevity. I have had different models from the same brand that wear differently. My experience with Brook's Ghost is that the midsole (foam) breaks down way before the shoe does. however the Brooks Hyperion Max seem to last well beyond most other Brooks that i have tried.

For you it sounds like the answer to your question is whatever Brooks model you had that lasted 1000+ miles.

Personally I find that all of my running shoes (besides super shoes) tend to feel dead at a similar mileage. So I don't really factor expected lifespan into my buying decisions.

Whatever shoe you choose, shop the previous model iteration online and buy several pairs at once. Not just the shoe manufacturer website, check running shop webpages and anything that comes up on google shopping. You might get an ugly colorway but should be able to find new pairs in the $60-$100 range and stock up.

Outlet clearance rack New Balances 

I bought kinvara 14s for speed work for $60

Brooks Launch have been my best value per mile shoe over the last 10 years or so.

eBay is your friend here if you know what you are searching for!

Can't comment on the other parts of the shoe's durability but generally it seems that when it comes to foam lifespan, softer foams tend to feel flat sooner than firmer foams. So no wonder Brooks have lasted quite long for you.

Since you enjoy Brooks, you can be even more economical by buying online from their "returns" store, Brooks Restart, that have their shoes at a good discount.

Despite them being returns, I've seen a lot of the shoes on there being listed as "Like New: No visible signs of wear" condition. So you basically get a new shoe (even current models) for a very good discount.

The shoes from Killian Jornet's company Nnormal are supposed to last a lot longer than the usually mentioned 300-400 miles.

Saucony shoes go on sale a ton at pretty big discounts (40%-50%). I've had the Triumphs before and then the Rides more recently and they last forever. I'm a heavy for a runner and the foam holds up a lot better than Hokas.

The only thing that stinks is that google shopping search used to be a lot better at finding different sites with sales, now when I search the first 50 results are all from the Saucony website and they go through women's walking shoes until they take me to other sites.

I've had the same issue with a few generations of Hoka Arahi. The heel cup has worn through to the plastic in the 750-900 mile range. I retired my 4 pairs of Arahi 5 and 6 primarily because of heel cup wear, but also due to tears over one or both big toes and substantial outsole wear. And I wasn't a stereotypical distance runner build - 6'1" 190-195 pounds during that period with 95%+ of running time outdoors and 90% of that on pavement.

3 of those I bought new and the 4th I bought used off eBay for about $55 (USD). Winning bid of about $42 - the rest was taxes and shipping. That pair seemingly had no wear in the photos and that also appeared to the case when I received them. I suspect they were a retail store return based on the seller's other listings. I got about 850 miles out of them so that worked out to about 6.5 cents per mile. Regardless of the models others recommend I'll say that the previous generation of a shoe that's marked down and/or slightly used will be the best $ per mile purchases.

Neo vista

As a general point, I’ll suggest some things that may help you:

There’s no need for “stability shoes”. This is an outdated marketing category that used to be shoved onto pretty much everyone except talented athletic runners with no foot issues. Likewise, “gait analysis” in shoe stores is a scam. But, on the other hand, if you like a shoe, use it.

The rate of wear of a given shoe, and the useful life of the shoe, can vary not just by model or brand, but by year, and by user. A heavier runner may simply burn through shoes faster, for example, and high performance shoes with super foams may not be tuned for those runners in the first place, so your mileage is always going to vary.

The main differentiators should be PEBA (or other super-foams) vs traditional EVA, and softness vs firmness for either. The outsole will determine a lot of the durability, as will upper. Whether the midsole bottoms out after 500 miles or 800 is sort of secondary.

It’s useful to have several models on the go at once. This allows you to get a better sense of what works for you and means less likelihood of injuring yourself due to running on busted shoes. Additionally, this allows you to always buy the models you know work for you on sale.

I never pay full price for my shoes because I know they go on sale predictably. So as a budget conscious person, you should pay attention to the sale prices and typical times the sales occur for shoes you like, and grab a pair at that time, even if you don’t need it yet.

It's been the Reebok Floatride Energy line for 6y or so now.

Ultra durable TPE foam that can't be beaten, upper might have been it's weak point in 1 & 2 but it's been fixed, and ultra cheap price where you can get a pair for like 50 bucks on a regular basis. 

1000-1500k while paying all of that 50$€ for an incredible all rounder quality wise, for the past decade I wasn't able to spot any brand doing better.  The major downside is that there's barely any marketing so you won't hear much internet hype about it (might also explain the price)

Brooks are the best 

Look into Mount to Coast. Their thing is longevity and quality. I’ve put 300+miles on mine and barely see any wear

The previous model Asics trainers are always like under $100 and are monster shoes

To get the best cost per mile, I never buy shoes at full price, and track sales for shoes I am interested in.

Current rotation:

Boston 12 ($64) - current daily trainers at 160mi feeling great so far, hoping to get at least 400mi out of them but we’ll see how they do over the next month. 400 miles would cost 17c/mile

Adios Pro 3 ($87.50) - only 35ish miles, heard good things about longevity so I bought 2 pairs, other pair is still unboxed, will be an occasional / race day shoe.

In the meantime I’ll probably add to the rotation while passively checking for deals. I really don’t like waiting until the last possible moment to buy new shoes at full price.

Even if there are shoes out there that last 500+ miles I’d rather rotate more pairs of shoes esp if that means a lower cost per mile and fewer injuries.


Definitely go with models from 1-2 years ago if your primary concern is cost. I know several people that have got 1000 miles from a pair of ASICS nimbus. Not the world's most exciting shoe and I probably wouldn't want to do sessions in it, but it should churn out easy miles for a long time.

2 year old models in weird colours. At least for men it also seems to help if you have very small feet as most of the clearance sales are in those sizes

I got a conservative 1100km+ out of my last pair of Sauconys but I use the Rides and am a fairly neutral runner

No love for Mizunos? The Wave Rider is perfectly fine for at least 1000 km. I usually stock up on last year's model for about 70 quid per pair. That translates into roughly 7 cents per km. I rotate with others, so I wear out only one pair each year, but per km they are still marginally cheaper than other daily trainers I run in.

People change shoes way too quickly. Your best bet is to rotate a few pairs and wear them longer.

I have been running for decades now and haven’t deviated.

Saucony off the clearance rack, in store or online warehouse, preferably Kinvara.

Adidas SL 1 were my best budget shoe ever. Felt the same 700 miles deep as it did on mile 120z

Saucony endorphin speeds get 400+ miles, past 250 quality goes down only slightly.

Biggest hack is find a shoe you like, then wait for them to come out with the new version. I have been using the Saucony Rides for years and years. When the new ones come out they are like $125 or so now, but I can often find the prior model for $85ish. There have been times where I bought three pairs of a prior model before they totally ran out. (I think I once got one, then noticed 4 months later they were still there and got two pairs)

I run a lot: 2200-2400 miles. So I go through 3-4 pairs of shoes per year. Maybe 1 out of 4 pairs I end up paying full price just by doing that.

It's interesting you said Saucony don't last, as mine always last around 500 miles. But with that said, I would go by that general strategy.

Hokas last pretty long for me as well. Often times you can find solid deals on eBay too where the shoe has just a little wear but not enough to damage or wear away the logo that’s on the heel of the insole. 

I’m over 1k at least on my Altra Riveras (they are falling apart however)

The original Adidas Adizero Adios line https://www.runnea.com/zapatillas-running/adidas/adizero-adios-2/50/ used to last easily 2,000km as the soles were Adiprene - a relatively firm material. The newer versions with the Boost foam barely lasted 500km before I could feel the deterioration in the sole. The newest soft foam, stacked heel shoes look to last even less.

Best option these days is to visit the specialty running stores and shop their end of season and end of line sales.

Same exact model of On Cloudswifts have lasted me anywhere from 300 mi to 600+. I think it depends far more on the terrain and running conditions than the brand, if you're looking at most effective way to cut costs.

Brooks Glycerine GTS - long runs Adidas Boston - faster runs, inc track

I'm a pronator who likes stability too. And a wide toe box if that matters. These work well for me long term.

Glycerine has been my go to for a long time. Boston is a recent appreciation. I know some miss the OG Boston but I'm happy with the new iteration. Helped me get over an Achilles injury and prep for a half marathon PB.

I stand by Superblast.

My first pair is at 887km. I'd keep using them but the grip is gone and it's winter here. When Spring comes and we're back to dry pavement, I'm using them again. They are great.

$300CAD for my pair. They can do everything from easy to marathon paced runs, and a little quicker. Not great for intervals, but anything slower.

Best bang for buck imo.

I have heard similar about the Novablast 5, but I'd reckon you need a race day shoe as well.

Anything with a TPU midsole. It's never outsole wear/grip that causes me to toss a shoe.

Whatever Costco is selling

This is so subjective and dependent on so many variables, including the specific model of shoe.

I’ve found Saucony (Ride and Triumph) to be incredibly durable, while Hokas (Clifton, Bondi, Mach) to be… less so.

I only buy shoes when they’re deeply discounted and only run in shoes that receive overwhelmingly positive reviews. There’s so many reviews, videos, vlogs and subreddits on the topic that you can’t hardly make a mistake with due diligence.

Saucony Cohesion line, available in DSW, retails in 60-70 dollars range. I'm on my 2nd pair and I put in 100+ miles a week so I'm cost conscious


Try buying the previous model on line or maybe your local running store has some.

Last year’s model on sale. It’s that simple.

Saucony, ASICS, Brooks, Nike, and New Balance seem to have the steepest discounts. Hoka and On rarely seem to slash their prices that steeply.

Adidas has some shoes for cheap too

Regardless of what’s recommended, I encourage people to find an outlet if possible near them. You can get lucky and find these shoes on sale for up to 50% off relatively often. I got my AP3’s at an outlet randomly. I almost never buy full price any more

Find a model you like and stalk it on Sierra.com and 6pm.com. Buy a couple of pairs on sale at a time if you can swing it.

I swear by the Brooks Launch model - going all the way back to the first edition. You can get them for around $100. I have two pairs currently and rotate them to give the midsoles a chance to rebound; allowing each pair to last longer.

If you have no preferences other than cost per mile, I regularly got over a thousand miles of mixed road and trail per <$100 pair of Luna or Bedrock sandals back when I was a sandal runner. My hunch is that tops the price efficiency list, at the obvious cost of looking like… a sandal runner

Brooks Launch is my pick. Love the shoe but doesn’t have much cushion or bounce

Pegasus are my go to for an everyday shoe. I grab a pair for £58 and they last me between 2000-2500km. The 39’s are my favourite (though I haven’t tried the 41’s yet) they last longer than the 40’s, and unlike the 40’s the upper doesn’t stay rigid

Your best bet for good value is to get an old model discounted. I got some ON cloudrunners for less than $100 and they’ve lasted a long time and were cheap in the first place.

I've got 1800 miles in saucony kinvara 9 and 1500 miles in the kinvara 11. I wear through vibram soles long before I've damaged saucony shoes or they start to hurt me. Maybe it's quite an individual thing.


Puma. Very good quality and they last quite a lot

If you have a ROSS near you, occasionally they have some great shoes. This will depend greatly on your store and shoe size.

As for HOKA, my Mach 6's were the least durable shoe I've ever owned. Maybe they aren't for forefoot strikers. (wore through the outsole in 350km)

Pegasus line is the best. Not much bounce and stuff but the durability is there. I clocked over 900km with Pegasus 39 and have a Pegasus 40 in queue

adidas Prime X. Yeah, a pricey shoe (though often can be found on steep discount.) But they are as close to indestructible as anything I've ever worn. I have owned four pairs purchased over the past 2+ years, all bought for under $150, and have yet to retire a single pair. The dollar per mile cost on these will end up being incredibly low once I finally retire them.

i run over probably 3000km with pegasus 40 i run over 1 years and half right now

i have 5-7 different pair. 2 pegasus 40, 2 NB 1080v12 ,3 carbon plated, 2 speedcross4

My conclusion about my running experience is shoes doesn't matter if you have build muscle overtime, knee will be protected by quad and calf. even if your shoes is already used as fuck.

if you want buy shoes half price : outlet, or 50% on high branding i pay 60euros for each pegasus this is fairly cheap

